Since approximately the age of nine, it has been the case that I have found myself perpetually puzzled by what could be characterised as the contradiction subsisting between, on the one hand, the circumstance of being constituted of matter that comports itself in a predictable manner, and, on the other, the subjective feeling that I was possessed of the capacity to choose that which I might happen to want. At that particular juncture of my early life, it could be observed that I was almost invariably to be found in some form of trouble, and it appeared to me, in many respects, that there might exist a means of extricating myself by way of advancing the argument that I was not, in fact, responsible for my own actions. The hope of pursuing that particular avenue was, in due course, relinquished, though the puzzle itself nevertheless persisted. The most efficacious manner of explaining the answer is arguably to commence with a version that is slightly in error and thereafter to undertake its correction. The erroneous version may be stated thus: one is able to do what one wants, but one is not able to want what one wants. One exercises control over what one does, but one will, in the event, do that which one wants, and over this latter circumstance one can exercise no control whatsoever. This formulation is, however, mistaken, for the reason that people do, on occasion, effect a change in that which they want. Those afflicted by addiction to drugs can, in certain instances, bring themselves to cease wanting. Individuals who harbour a desire to develop a fondness for classical music or for broccoli do, from time to time, meet with success in this regard. We are therefore obliged to modify the formulation as follows: one is able to do what one wants, but one is not able to want to want what one wants. This, too, falls short of being entirely true, for the reason that one is capable of altering what one wants to want. We are, nevertheless, drawing progressively nearer to the truth. It is a comparatively rare occurrence for an individual to change what he wants to want, and, it could be suggested, the greater the number of iterations of "want to" that are appended, the rarer such an occurrence is found to become.
