In the discourse of the popular press, the term "hacker" is, by and large, understood to denote an individual who undertakes the unauthorised penetration of computer systems. Within the community of programmers, however, it could be suggested that the very same term is employed to signify a practitioner of considerable competence. Yet it would be a mistake to regard these two significations as wholly unrelated, for the two meanings are, in many respects, intimately connected: to those who write software, the word "hacker" carries connotations of mastery, designating a person possessed of the capacity to compel a computer to perform precisely that which he desires of it. The noun "hack" may likewise be observed to possess a duality of sense. It is capable of functioning either as a compliment or, alternatively, as an insult. It is described as a hack when one accomplishes some task by means that may be characterised as aesthetically unpleasing. And yet, when one accomplishes something of such ingenuity that the system is, in effect, bested, this too is designated a hack. It could be suggested that the word finds employment more frequently in the former sense than in the latter, this being attributable to the circumstance that solutions of an inelegant nature are considerably more common than those of a brilliant character. The two senses are, moreover, themselves connected: solutions that are inelegant and solutions that are imaginative alike share the property of breaking the established rules. There exists, in many respects, a continuum extending between rule-breaking that is merely inelegant in nature, of which the application of duct tape to one's bicycle might be offered as an illustration, and rule-breaking that rises to the level of the brilliant, of which the discarding of Euclidean space could be advanced as an example. It should further be noted that the practice of hacking is one that predates the advent of computers. Richard Feynman, it may be recalled, applied himself to the cracking of safes during his involvement with the Manhattan Project. An acquaintance of mine was, during his time at MIT, in possession of a lock-picking kit, and now, it might be observed, presides over the operation of a hedge fund. Yet another acquaintance found himself in difficulty with the FBI on account of having broken into computers, for the reason that the investigations conducted by that body commence with the identification of a motive, and intellectual curiosity was not, regrettably, to be found upon their enumerated list of motives, which comprised drugs, money, sex, and revenge.
