During the period of my secondary education, it could reasonably be observed that a considerable portion of my time and energy was devoted to the imitation of writers whose work might, in retrospect, be characterised as deficient in quality. The material to which we were exposed within the context of our English instruction consisted, in the main, of works of fiction, and consequently it was assumed by me, perhaps not unreasonably given the circumstances, that fiction constituted the most elevated and esteemed form of written expression available. The narratives that appeared, in many respects, to be most widely admired and celebrated were those in which the characters depicted were shown to undergo suffering of a complicated and multifaceted nature. Anything that could be deemed humorous or, alternatively, gripping in its capacity to hold the attention was, it could be suggested, regarded with a certain measure of suspicion, the notable exception being works of considerable antiquity such as those produced by Shakespeare or Chaucer. The medium that appeared to be held up as the ideal vehicle for literary accomplishment was arguably the short story, a form whose period of flourishing was, it might be noted, relatively brief in duration and broadly coincident with the apex of magazine publication. Owing to the considerable brevity that characterised such pieces, it was, in effect, not strictly necessary that anything of substance should actually transpire; one could simply present a randomly truncated cross-section of lived experience, and this was, by general consensus, considered to represent an advanced and sophisticated approach. The consequence of all this was that I found myself producing a substantial quantity of stories in which nothing of any note occurred, save for the circumstance that some individual was rendered unhappy in a manner that gave the appearance of being profound. For the greater part of my time spent in collegiate study, it was the case that I pursued a course of concentration in the discipline of philosophy. I was, it must be conceded, considerably impressed by the papers that appeared within the pages of philosophical journals, though it would not be inaccurate to acknowledge that I never quite arrived at a full understanding of them. Nevertheless, an attempt was made on my part to imitate them. This was, in many respects, an endeavour foredoomed to failure, for the reason that they were not, in actual fact, articulating anything of genuine substance. No philosopher was ever observed to refute another, this being attributable to the fact that no party advanced any proposition sufficiently definite as to be susceptible of refutation. My own imitative efforts, it could be suggested, similarly failed to articulate anything whatsoever.
